content/blog/vintage_yamaha.md, before:

---
title: "vintage_yamaha"
date: 2021-12-20T15:54:03+01:00
draft: false
tags: [audio, vintage, design]
---

# love at first sight

Last month I bought two pieces of very old audio equipment off of eBay-kleinanzeigen. Admittedly I got interested in the amp, mainly because of its *gorgeous* design. While reading up on it[^1] I discovered that it was tremendously well received when Yamaha introduced it in 1981. Back then it cost 1,200 DM (1,367 Euros in 2021[^2]). As I still like to listen to the radio naturally I needed a nice tuner as well.

{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_front.jpg" title="front view">}}
{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_tuner_right.jpg" title="signal reception indicator of the tuner">}}
{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_amp_detail.jpg" title="amp detail">}}

Presently I am thinking about also getting a cassette deck of the same design line. The Yamaha K-350 cassette player would fit perfectly. Unfortunately finding cassette players of that age that still work flawlessly seems to be difficult. Maybe I will have to familiarize myself with repairing/cleaning an older cassette deck[^3].

Seeing this great piece of equipment in action also makes me a little sad; that most of today's audio/video products will *not* be as long-lasting as these almost 40 year old pieces of hardware is not a good thing.  

[^1]: https://www.hifi-wiki.de/index.php/Yamaha_A-960_II [German]
[^2]: according to https://www.altersvorsorge-und-inflation.de/euro-rechner.php
[^3]: https://www.instructables.com/Intro-to-Cassette-Recorder-Operation-Maintenance-a/

Commit message:

[update] Add image of my Yamaha K350 cassette deck.

content/blog/vintage_yamaha.md, after:

---
title: "vintage_yamaha"
date: 2021-12-20T15:54:03+01:00
update: 2022-11-27T11:54:00
draft: false
tags: [audio, vintage, design]
---

# love at first sight

Last month I bought two quite old pieces of audio equipment from "eBay-kleinanzeigen". Admittedly I got interested in the amp, mainly because of its *gorgeous* design. While reading up on it[^1] I discovered that it was tremendously well received when Yamaha introduced it in 1981. Back then it cost 1200 DM (~1367 Euros in 2021[^2]). As I still like to listen to the radio naturally I needed a nice tuner as well.

{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_front.jpg" title="front view">}}
{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_tuner_right.jpg" title="signal reception indicator of the tuner">}}
{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_amp_detail.jpg" title="amp detail">}}

Presently I am thinking about also getting a cassette deck of the same design line. The Yamaha K-350 cassette player would fit perfectly. Unfortunately finding cassette players of that age that still work flawlessly seems to be difficult. Maybe I will have to familiarize myself with repairing/cleaning an older cassette deck[^3].

Seeing this great piece of equipment in action also makes me a little sad; that most of today's audio/video products will *not* be nearly as long-lasting as these almost 40 year old pieces of hardware is not a good thing. 

# Update:
I found an old cassette-deck from the same product line. The Yamaha K-350 fits right in here.
{{<figure src="/img/yamaha_with_k350.jpg" title="all three pieces together">}}

[^1]: https://www.hifi-wiki.de/index.php/Yamaha_A-960_II [German]
[^2]: according to https://www.altersvorsorge-und-inflation.de/euro-rechner.php
[^3]: https://www.instructables.com/Intro-to-Cassette-Recorder-Operation-Maintenance-a/
